CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Hey thanks for your interest in contributing to this project! I really appreciate that you're here 👏🌻

This page should get you up and running with how to run locally and how to adhere to this project's style guide also.

1. [Installation](#installation)
	1.  [With a real Azure IoT Hub](#with-a-real-azure-iot-hub)
	2.  [With the device and hub simulator](#with-the-built-in-device-and-hub-simulator)
2. [Style Guide](#style-guide-for-contributing-code)

## Installation

When developing electric-dreams locally, you have two options for ensuring you can test your code with incoming data. You can use a real Azure IoT Hub for connecting to, or you can use the ready made simulator instead.

### With a real Azure IoT Hub

You'll need to have your Azure IoT Hub connection string handy. You can find it under your 'Shared Access Policies' section in the IoT Hub's Azure Portal blade. Choose a policy that allows 'registry read', 'service connect' and 'device connect' at the least. 

You can also list your connections strings [via the command line](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/iot/hub?view=azure-cli-latest#az-iot-hub-show-connection-string)!

**Now you're ready to install the app.**


1. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.org)
3. Open your [terminal](https://lifehacker.com/5633909/who-needs-a-mouse-learn-to-use-the-command-line-for-almost-anything) and run the following commands:
	1. `git clone https://github.com/noopkat/electric-io.git && cd electric-io`
	2. `npm install`

4. Open the file `.env` in and fill in the `CONNECTION_STRING` property with your Azure IoT Hub connection string.
5. Optional - specify the `CONSUMER_GROUP` in `.env`. _If you don't know what this is, you can skip this step_.
6. In your terminal, run `npm start` from this project's root directory.
7. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your favourite modern browser and away you go!

### With the built in device and hub simulator

This application also features a simulator that features three 'devices' that send JSON payloads to a fake 'hub' running locally. 


1. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.org)
3. Open your [terminal](https://lifehacker.com/5633909/who-needs-a-mouse-learn-to-use-the-command-line-for-almost-anything) and run the following commands:
	1. `git clone https://github.com/noopkat/electric-io.git && cd electric-io`
	2. `npm install`
4. Navigate to the `.data` directory where you'll note a file called `dashboard.json.sim`. Copy this file to the same directory and name it `dashboard.json`. This will set you up with a pre-made dashboard layout with some cards already listening to data from the simulated devices 😎
5. In your terminal, run `SIMULATING=true node index.js` from this project's root directory.
6. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your favourite modern browser and away you go!

#### The three simulated devices are as follows:

Device Id: `AZ3166`  
Send frequency: ~1 second

Example payload:

```json
{
   "temperature": 25.8976,
   "humidity": 40.6790
 }
```

〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️

Device Id:  `Tessel2`  
Send frequency: ~1 second

Example payload:

```json
{
   "light": 0.45689,
   "sound": 0.23878
 }
```

〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️

Device Id: `Jenn`  
Send frequency: ~10 seconds

Example payload:

```json
{
   "coolness": 98.56
}
```

## Style guide for contributing code

If you dislike these guidelines or don't agree, please fork this repo and have fun! This is why I made it open source 🏝

This section will be rather informal, as is my code in this project 😉 
 
Just a couple of guidelines to please heed:

### No build toolchains

You'll notice there are zero build / transpilation steps. This is intentional as I want this app to run as an easily remixable app on Glitch. As a result, please note:

1. NodeJS 4+ is required (perhaps hold off on using async/await etc)
2. SASS, Less, etc are not supported or preferred
3. `.vue` single file components are not supported, but use my own single file component convention in this project please 🙏🏻
4. Most modern browsers still support the included JS / CSS syntax, but check [caniuse.com](caniuse.com) first when trying anything 'fancy'
5.  It's actually quite nice despite some small caveats 🌻

If you want a build toolchain for transpiling for older browsers or bundling or for SASS, go for it! But do this in your own fork and keep it as your own project rather than trying to change this one 💜

### CSS strategy

I'd prefer to keep the css styles global and in `.css` format in the `public/css` directory. I used to be quite good at CSS but I am pretty rusty these days so I'd appreciate any reordering and tidying up of things 🙇🏼‍♀️

CSS in JS is cool and everything, but I'd prefer not to do it in this project. It's not complex enough to need this strategy.

Splitting into several CSS files is fine! Just keep in mind it creates more requests when the page loads.

### No linter?? ☠️

It's really fine I promise.

### Tests

There are currently no tests 😱 Yes this is a priority for me going forward! I like Tape for backend tests and Jest for front-end tests but I am open to suggestions!

If you're struggling to set up tests without build tools like webpack / babel / gulp / vue-cli I am happy to talk to you about this.


### Mobile support

Mobile support for this app is not great at the moment. I'd suggest the following if you want to help make it more responsive:

1. Make every card stack one underneath each other so the user can scroll down and view them that way.
2. Larger 'edit' and 'delete' buttons on mobile.
3. Settings can be an expandable menu item (really this should be a thing for the desktop version)

Just some ideas ✨ Add your own if you geek out about mobile responsive designs!

Commit message:

module support in firefox is a little too fresh so we need a build step afterall

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Hey thanks for your interest in contributing to this project! I really appreciate that you're here 👏🌻

This page should get you up and running with how to run locally and how to adhere to this project's style guide also.

1. [Installation](#installation)
	1.  [With a real Azure IoT Hub](#with-a-real-azure-iot-hub)
	2.  [With the device and hub simulator](#with-the-built-in-device-and-hub-simulator)
2. [Style Guide](#style-guide-for-contributing-code)

## Installation

When developing electric-dreams locally, you have two options for ensuring you can test your code with incoming data. You can use a real Azure IoT Hub for connecting to, or you can use the ready made simulator instead.

### With a real Azure IoT Hub

You'll need to have your Azure IoT Hub connection string handy. You can find it under your 'Shared Access Policies' section in the IoT Hub's Azure Portal blade. Choose a policy that allows 'registry read', 'service connect' and 'device connect' at the least. 

You can also list your connections strings [via the command line](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/iot/hub?view=azure-cli-latest#az-iot-hub-show-connection-string)!

**Now you're ready to install the app.**


1. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.org)
3. Open your [terminal](https://lifehacker.com/5633909/who-needs-a-mouse-learn-to-use-the-command-line-for-almost-anything) and run the following commands:
	1. `git clone https://github.com/noopkat/electric-io.git && cd electric-io`
	2. `npm install`

4. Open the file `.env` in and fill in the `CONNECTION_STRING` property with your Azure IoT Hub connection string.
5. Optional - specify the `CONSUMER_GROUP` in `.env`. _If you don't know what this is, you can skip this step_.
6. In your terminal, run `npm start` from this project's root directory.
7. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your favourite modern browser and away you go!

### With the built in device and hub simulator

This application also features a simulator that features three 'devices' that send JSON payloads to a fake 'hub' running locally. 


1. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.org)
3. Open your [terminal](https://lifehacker.com/5633909/who-needs-a-mouse-learn-to-use-the-command-line-for-almost-anything) and run the following commands:
	1. `git clone https://github.com/noopkat/electric-io.git && cd electric-io`
	2. `npm install`
4. Navigate to the `.data` directory where you'll note a file called `dashboard.json.sim`. Copy this file to the same directory and name it `dashboard.json`. This will set you up with a pre-made dashboard layout with some cards already listening to data from the simulated devices 😎
5. In your terminal, run `SIMULATING=true node index.js` from this project's root directory.
6. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your favourite modern browser and away you go!

#### The three simulated devices are as follows:

Device Id: `AZ3166`  
Send frequency: ~1 second

Example payload:

```json
{
   "temperature": 25.8976,
   "humidity": 40.6790
 }
```

〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️

Device Id:  `Tessel2`  
Send frequency: ~1 second

Example payload:

```json
{
   "light": 0.45689,
   "sound": 0.23878
 }
```

〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️〰️

Device Id: `Jenn`  
Send frequency: ~10 seconds

Example payload:

```json
{
   "coolness": 98.56
}
```

## Style guide for contributing code

If you dislike these guidelines or don't agree, please fork this repo and have fun! This is why I made it open source 🏝

This section will be rather informal, as is my code in this project 😉 
 
Just a couple of guidelines to please heed:

### Limited build setup

You'll notice there are zero build steps for Vue specifically. There is a bundling step to mostly address the sparse support for html module scripts at the present time, and to catch any accidental support issues with JavaScript syntax. This is intentional as I'd like any script building / bundling to be lightweight and easily removeable. As a result, please note:

1. NodeJS 4+ is required (perhaps hold off on using async/await etc)
2. SASS, Less, etc are not supported or preferred
3. `.vue` single file components are not supported, but use my own single file component convention in this project please 🙏🏻
4.  It's actually quite nice despite some small caveats 🌻

If you want a build toolchain for doing extra things like SASS or Vue related transpiling, go for it! But do this in your own fork and keep it as your own project rather than trying to change this one 💜

### CSS strategy

I'd prefer to keep the css styles global and in `.css` format in the `public/css` directory. I used to be quite good at CSS but I am pretty rusty these days so I'd appreciate any reordering and tidying up of things 🙇🏼‍♀️

CSS in JS is cool and everything, but I'd prefer not to do it in this project. It's not complex enough to need this strategy.

Splitting into several CSS files is fine! Just keep in mind it creates more requests when the page loads.

### No linter?? ☠️

It's really fine I promise.

### Tests

There are currently no tests 😱 Yes this is a priority for me going forward! I like Tape for backend tests and Jest for front-end tests but I am open to suggestions!

If you're struggling to set up tests without build tools like webpack / babel / gulp / vue-cli I am happy to talk to you about this.


### Mobile support

Mobile support for this app is not great at the moment. I'd suggest the following if you want to help make it more responsive:

1. Make every card stack one underneath each other so the user can scroll down and view them that way.
2. Larger 'edit' and 'delete' buttons on mobile.
3. Settings can be an expandable menu item (really this should be a thing for the desktop version)

Just some ideas ✨ Add your own if you geek out about mobile responsive designs!
